---
title: Big40
date: 2009-04-14T11:34:28.000Z
---
Stuart\'s Party
===============

Hedonism! Well sort of, you\'ve gotta slow down a bit at 40\... Thus
Stuart and several of his delightful friends had a rather grown up
party, and invited Angela & Phil along too. Apparantly we brought the
camera, I don\'t really remember much in detail!

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/stuspeaks.jpg "wikilink")
[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/lottie.jpg "wikilink")

Here Stuart waxes lyrical about the issue of indigestion in modern
society, and provides some fine examples of his subject :)

The lovely lady on the sofa is Charlotte, who was eventually persuaded
to bring her parents along so she had someone to sit on. Being of the
fairer sex, and slightly underage for most of the drinking games, Lottie
retied to bed around 10:30, having stolen the show until that point.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/whatsthat.jpg "wikilink")
[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/forks.jpg "wikilink")

If I remember correctly (although things were getting a tad hazy at this
point), this is Phil, Marie and Stuart trying to work out \"what IS that
thing on the table?\" It must have been good, Marie is taking a photo
(hmmn - must ask her for that one!) I strongly suspect we ate it shortly
afterwards\...

Eeek! It\'s a madman with a bunch of forks! Runaway! Actually I suspect
it\'s just Stuart offering cake to all and sundry - after all it soaks
up Jack Daniels nicely - \*hic\*

Posh Nosh
=========

Having sobered up from the earlier adventures, Phil & Stuart thought it
was about time to treat the family to dinner at a nice restaurant. Thus
we all headed over to St Albans and the [Sopwell House
Hotel](http://www.sopwellhouse.co.uk/sopwell/index.htm "wikilink") for
dinner in their delightful abode.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/stutomphil.jpg "wikilink")

We\'ll start at the end then shall we? This is the birthday boys
themselves, either side of a coffee-revived Tom, for some reason Angela
suggested we take our specs off for this one.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/mumdadstu.jpg "wikilink")

Yes it\'s Stuart talking again! I rekon he was telling a joke at this
point, since Dad is laughing and Mum has that slighty quizzical look
that says \"is this a clean joke?\" Hehe. You can tell from the mince
pies and plentiful empty glasses that we are still at the end of the
meal.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/annemartin.jpg "wikilink")

It\'s Anne, all sparkly and surrounded by those very large glasses again
(can\'t think why). Martin is modelling the latest in \'can I borrow a
tie\' fashion, and the expression of a seasoned rock star when
approached by yet more paparazzi - More photos? Oh all right then\...

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/jim.jpg "wikilink")

It\'s the cheeky boy himself! Doing his best not to look like a school
physics teacher (yes he really was one of those), Jim is wearing a
vintage pinstripe shirt, and that special tie that says \"Mr Higgins -
I\'ve lost me pencil Sir!\"

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/bobjoe.jpg "wikilink")

Ohhhh! Is that a camer-\*flash!\* Yup. Bob has decided that shaving is
for wimps, so the tash is likely to get longer\... when it reaches the
same density as his eyebrows he might notice! Joe is demonstrating the
supreme calm that can be achieved by drinking the finest champagne and
stealing Grandad\'s mince pies.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/big40/helen.jpg "wikilink")

So errr when do we get fed exactly then Mum? Poor Helen has been waiting
all day for decent meal, and we made her sit in the car for 3 hours
before she could eat. It\'s a hard life sometimes. I promise she was
much happier when the food arrived!
