---
title: TheShed__PartII
date: 2009-04-14T11:34:28.000Z
---
Demolition
==========

[](https://ashbysoft.com/shed/fire.jpg "wikilink")
[](https://ashbysoft.com/shed/fire2.jpg "wikilink")

Removing the old shed took ages, mostly because we had to carefully take
off the roof panels, while still standing on them, or the very wobbly
supporting rafters, then strip out all the rockwool lining (boy does
that stuff make you itch!) before we could properly enjoy the task of
hacking down the walls with a crowbar and big hammers :) In the end we
filled 2 skips (of 4 yards each), and had some left over to burn - ahhh
the smell of woodsmoke in the evening!

Construction
============

Day 1
-----

After the ritual burning, we cleared the area, relocated and levelled
the paving slabs, then laid new joists on them, finally I aligned the
joists carefully before we placed the floor panels on them.

Now the fun bit - putting up wall panels that are 10 feet long, 8 or 9
feet high, and weigh between 50-70kg each, in a force 4-5 breeze.
Suffice to say that we nearly lost the whole lot over next door at one
point - [Robert](Robert "wikilink") managed to stop it from leaving the
garden, I then grabbed a nearby lump of 4x2 which I used as a lever to
put the structure back on it\'s base and [Martin](Martin "wikilink")
fitted a couple of screws into the floor which helped a lot- phew!

Having secured the walls to each other and the floor, we fitted the
central roof rafter and propped the structure using some left over
timbers from the old shed, then retired for the evening - worn out.

Day 2
-----

[](https://ashbysoft.com/shed/outside1.jpg "wikilink")

Pleased to see the structure still where we left it, we tackled the task
of putting the roof panels on, from inside the building with one step
ladder, one exterior ladder and lots of cunning.

Luckily the panels fitted nicely through the gap between the walls and
the central rafter, and we were able to push them up, then slide them
back into position. [Joseph](Joseph "wikilink") then got to work with
the drill and fitted the securing coach screws before the wind picked up
again.

[](https://ashbysoft.com/shed/outside2.jpg "wikilink")

Our final construction task of the day was to put down the roofing felt
- which [Thomas](Thomas "wikilink") and [Joseph](Joseph "wikilink") did
very nicely with just a bit of guidance from [Dad](Phlash "wikilink")

[Angela](Angela "wikilink") then set to work with the woodstain, turning
our building a lovely shade of green. The result? See for yourself!

[](https://ashbysoft.com/shed/inside.jpg "wikilink")

..and now..
===========

Detailed design is now starting on the internal room, which is probably
going to involve a diagonal partition wall (to reduce reflections and
gain a little extra space), paving slabs and polystyrene underfloor
insulation, ventilation ducts in (floor level) and out (ceiling), more
rockwool, acoustic curtains and plasterboarding.. to say nothing of the
timber frame to support all this gubbins. I think I\'ll enjoy this bit!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interior construction follows\... [more \>\>](../PartIII "wikilink")
